A timeless definition of skills you need in order to create value in Tech.

Let's start from the goal state: ability to create economic value.
* First principles understanding of how a company makes money and the ways in which you can use the company vehicle to create greater value.
* Break incorrect assumptions about what the right skills are and what the right career progression is:
	* Writing code well isn't the only way to create value as a software engineer.
	* Don't be restricted by titles.
* Don't assume that the best path to creating value is walking up the software engineer IC path. That is one of many possible paths (tie this back to the first principles understanding of how to create value in a company).

* Direct means of creating value.
	* Improving a product to increase number of customers / usage / revenue.
	* Creating a new product that is adopted by users
	* Optimizing a product to reduce burn.
	* Selling product to more customers.
* One step removed from direct value creation:
	* Operate one level above directly impacting the bottom line: leading a team to create value?
* The most powerful ways to create value don't neatly fall into specific roles / titles. They are achieved by doing whatever necessary, even if that means taking up responsibilities that weren't originally yours.

**Meta learning**
* Don't constrain yourself to any title / role. Instead, constrain yourself to creating long-term value.
	* Quick reference to growth of hybrid roles - this is an important, increasingly popular reality on the job market.

**First principles understanding of how to create value in a company**
* Start with n = 1: a single person company. What does that look like and what are the skills required to create value in that environment?
* n = 100 (small startup)
* n = 1000 (scaling startup)
* n >= 10000 (established startup)
* n >= 100000 (Big Tech)
* Dimensions to analyze:
	* Product - What
	* Engineering - How
	* Sales - Who.

**Skills - raw brainstorm:**
* Taste / product sense. Having the right sense for which problems to solve / which product directions to pursue that will lead to the best long-term outcomes.
	* The thing that kills most companies isn't executing too slowly, but rather working on the wrong problems / wrong market. It's building something people don't really want. The ability to avoid that is invaluable.
* Solution intuition: knowing which solution paths are the best to solve a particular problem.
* Raw execution: ability to turn ideas to reality quickly. I've noticed this is actually quite undervalued... surprisingly. There are fewer easy wins than the ability to work hard. It's not work smart, not hard. It's rather: work smart and hard.
* Leadership: ability to make your team better than the sum of its parts. Choosing the right teammates to bring into your team. Making the tough calls to fire the wrong people.
* Selling: kickstarting new products, selling to new customers, upselling existing customers, or basically doing ANYTHING in a company that doesn't require 
