### Bob and Alice

It’s the spring of 2013.

Alice and Bob (real people, names changed and company names redacted) are job hunting for their first full-time job.

Bob spent the last 2 summers interning as a software engineer at well known companies: first at HP and then at IBM. A few months before graduation, when most of his peers (including Alice) were stressing about where to work, Bob had decided that he didn’t want to go through the stress of applying and interviewing at companies and took things easy. He knew that no matter what happened, he’d still have a return offer from IBM. After all, IBM was a company his parents and grandparents knew and he gained plenty of social clout in his family circles for even interning there. He had a cushy 6 figure salary job waiting for him and didn’t think much about exploring other options.

Eventually Bob managed to get interviews at 2 more companies, but accepted the IBM offer before even interviewing at the other companies. Bob was stressed and wanted to just accept the offer so that he can move on with his life without worrying about more interviews. He ended up throwing a huge party for his friends and family where he was congratulated for joining a prestigious company like IBM with an impressive 6 figure starting salary.

When Bob first joined, he was incredibly excited and engaged with work. After all, he was working on a new, massive code base, with new teammates, in a new environment and making enough money to buy a new car that he’d been eyeing for years. What more could Bob want?

Three years into his career at IBM, Bob had one promotion and became a senior software engineer. But things weren’t looking good for Bob. Despite the elevation in his title, he didn’t feel like he learned much over the years… except perhaps that most energies at his company were directed towards political battles and power struggles rather than on product and engineering.

After three years, Bob was still working on the same team, on the same legacy code base (which he became the expert of). Since the company had been around for decades, and likely overstaffed, things moved slowly. Even small changes required going through 3 different review processes that could take weeks, and likely months. Want to build a new product / feature? That was near impossible. Engineers at Bob’s company were treated as people who were given an exact spec of what to build / do, and were expected to deliver on that spec. There wasn’t a cultural space for engineers to propose and work on new products / features.

Bob saw his life flash before his eyes. Before he knew it, he’d spend the prime of his life at a company where he wasn’t challenged, excited, or growing. Gripped by fear of this dreary future, Bob decided he was going to leave and join a more exciting, product driven company that was actually growing. To a place where he felt he could be more alive & actually serve customers rather than serving internal company political wars.

Unfortunately, Bob didn’t feel like he learned much during his days at this company and feared how he’d fare interviews at companies with more challenging and exciting work environments. With this fear Bob kept pushing off actually leaving his company. He’d tell his friends every year during New Year get-togethers that this would be the year he’d quit. But for one reason or the other, that day never came. Two more years passed and now Bob was 5 years into his first job.

As a way to cope with his lack of learning and growth, Bob became jaded with work. He injected this dread towards work to any young person he came across: “Work is fine and all, but it’s not everything, make sure you find something you’re actually passionate about outside of work”. But that’s easier said than done. He eventually bought a house with a mortgage and decided to settle down a bit.

Around the same time Bob’s company laid off 20% of its staff due to poor business and he was unfortunately one of those let go. Unprepared for this situation and without the competence to actually earn jobs anywhere, Bob had an uphill battle in front of him. He also didn’t have much time to figure it out since he had a mortgage he was liable for… 😞

After 5 years, Bob was disillusioned with work, and the world. And Bob feared what would happen next.

Back to the spring of 2013. Alice had no internships under her belt. She had instead spent summers doing research for a professor at her college, and therefore Alice had no active job offers. By the time Alice graduated, she managed to land one job offer from a company close to campus, but she didn’t feel like they were a good fit for what she wanted to work on, so she decided to spend more time job hunting and preparing for interviews to join a better company.

Her peers ended up starting full-time roles at companies they’d interned at over the previous years while Alice kept grinding away.

Half a year had passed. Because Alice went to a college that most people hadn’t heard of, and because she had no prior experience, Alice wasn’t hearing back from the companies she actually wanted to work at. But she decided that she’d give this process 1 year, and if she didn’t get a job at a company she was actually excited to work at, then she’d pick from the options she had. She lived at home with her family in order to keep costs low so that she could afford to take this extra time with job hunting.

At the nudging of her friend and in order to hone her skills, Alice started building projects in the open so that she could get feedback from the larger community of software engineers and builders. She launched a new project every week to hone her skills with a popular web framework, and published it to her blog while creating a “making of” video that had the highlights of her codebase. After 2 months of building 7 projects, Alice felt much more confident in presenting herself to the world.

She then made a list of 10 companies that made products that she actually used on a regular basis. She did the research on these companies to find the manager on teams that she wanted to work on, and cold emailed each of them with a short blurb on who she was, what she could bring to the table and a link to a project that she was most proud of.

Out of the 10 managers she cold emailed, 7 ignored her, 1 told her to not cold email him again and to just apply online, and 2 who were thrilled that Alice took the the time and effort to reach out and were excited to hop on a call with Alice to discuss opportunities on their teams.

Because Alice used the products these companies made, she was well prepared for the phone calls. Her genuine enthusiasm was contagious and led to onsite interviews where she performed well. Alice received offers from both of the companies.

She decided to join the smaller startup. The company was only 100 people strong, and had just raised 50 million dollars because they were growing so fast and unable to keep up with user demand. Alice knew she wanted to work someplace that was growing fast, and work on a product that she had an actual, emotional connection with - this startup felt like the right place to work, even though it paid $10k less than her other offer at a larger Tech company, but at a high 5 figure salary, Alice knew she could easily make ends meet and wanted to take the opportunity that was more aligned with her.

In her first few months, Alice struggled very hard to keep up with all that was happening, and didn’t quite receive the mentorship she felt that she needed. She was terrified that perhaps she wasn’t cut out for this work and had contemplated leaving everything and going someplace moving at a pace that she was more comfortable with, and with mentorship she deeply wanted.

But because her company was growing so fast, it had begun to attract the attention from some of the top engineers in the world, who were now applying to the company. By Alice’s 6 month mark, her team brought on board a senior engineer who was previously instrumental in the development of a very popular app that Alice and all of her friends use every single day. And even better, this senior engineer became Alice’s mentor.

Things changed rapidly. New features were pushed out every single week. Bugs had to be fixed no matter the time of day or which day it was. Alice was working harder than she’d ever worked, but she enjoyed it at the same time. For her mind, Alice felt this was the right environment: working at breakneck pace with equally excited and motivated peers, all while seeing the fruits of her labor reach users every week!

After 2 years at this startup, Alice was made the team lead for a new feature that Alice had proposed to the company based on her personal experience using their product. This was an exciting step for Alice. Though she loved to engineer, she also realized that she has a deep appreciation and excitement towards product design and engaging with users on a regular basis to validate ideas and figure out what was important to build next.

She spent the next 2 years as a product lead on the feature that she helped start and had.

By this point, Alice had kickstarted a product feature that was used heavily by over half of all users, hired and built a team around this feature, explored various hats: engineer, product manager, customer support and had first hand experience for what it took to bring a new product to the world and grow it.

Of course there was tremendous effort and pain to keep up with the pace, but Alice felt quite satisfied every time she looked back at her journey. She couldn’t have imagined being able to learn what she had in such a short period of time. She’d never had a learning experience as meaningful and practical as this one, and as a result Alice felt a confidence she’d never felt before.

She knew that whatever happened, her mind was now extremely desirable at countless other companies and she had the option to go wherever, or even start her own thing if she desired.

After 5 years, Alice was thriving.

### Comparing their journeys

### Outcomes in creative domains are high variance, high range.

### Most value captured by small percentage

### Power of compounding

### What is learning?

→ Neuroscientific definition

→ What is the point of that?

### How to optimize rate of learning

1.  Cycles.